packages/locator/README.md, before:

<a href="https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/locator#readme" target="_blank">
  <p>
    <img width="100%" src="https://assets.solidjs.com/banner?type=Devtools&background=tiles&project=Locator" alt="Solid Devtools Locator">
  </p>
</a>

# @solid-devtools/locator

A runtime library for locating components on the page, and going to their source code in your IDE.

## Getting Started

### Installation

This module is built-in with [`solid-devtools`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/debugger#readme) package.

To be able to use the _"open source code in IDE"_ feature, you need to install [`@solid-devtools/babel-plugin`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/babel-plugin#readme) additionally.

```bash
# @solid-devtools/babel-plugin is optional

npm i solid-devtools @solid-devtools/babel-plugin
# or
yarn add solid-devtools @solid-devtools/babel-plugin
# or
pnpm i solid-devtools @solid-devtools/babel-plugin
```

### Babel Plugin

To be able to use the _"open source code in IDE"_ feature, you need to install and add [`@solid-devtools/babel-plugin`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/babel-plugin#readme) to vite plugins.

[**Follow the setup guide on it here**](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/babel-plugin#Setup)

### Enable the Locator plugin

The [`solid-devtools`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/debugger#readme) package comes with this placage installed. All you need to do is configure it by calling `useLocatorPlugin` with some options.

```ts
import { useLocatorPlugin } from "solid-devtools"

useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: "vscode",
})
```

### Locator Options

Currently Locator allows for specifying these props:

#### `targetIDE`

Choose in which IDE the component source code should be revealed.

Out-of-the-box options: `vscode`, `atom`, `webstorm` and `vscode-insiders`

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: "vscode",
})
```

**Target URL Function:**

To target custom URLs (e.g. Github files) the `targetIDE` option accepts an function returning a `string` or `false`.

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: ({ filePath, line }) =>
    // will navigate to this link when clicking
    `https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/blob/main/playgrounds/sandbox/${filePath}#L${line}`,
})
```

Returning `false` will prevent calling `window.open` to navigate to URL, and let you handle the click yourself.

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE({ projectPath, filePath, line, column, element }) {
    console.log({ projectPath, filePath, line, column, element })
    return false
  },
})
```

#### `key`

Holding which key should enable the locator overlay? It's `"altKey"` by default — <kbd>Alt</kbd> on Windows, and <kbd>Option</kbd> or <kbd>⌥</kbd> on macOS.

Key options: `"altKey"`, `"ctrlKey"`, `"metaKey"`, `"shiftKey"` or `string` to be compared with `e.key` property.

```tsx
useLocatorPlugin({
  key: "ctrlKey",
})
```

### Using the Locator on the page

To activate the Locator module — you have to hold down the <kbd>Alt</kbd>/<kbd>Option</kbd> key and move your mouse around the page to highlight components and their different HTML Elements.

Clicking the component should take you to the component source code, given that you specified the [`targetIDE`](#targetIDE) option.

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24491503/174093606-a0d80331-021f-4d43-b0bb-e9a4041e1a26.mp4

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

rexport vite plugin from the main package

packages/locator/README.md, after:

<a href="https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/locator#readme" target="_blank">
  <p>
    <img width="100%" src="https://assets.solidjs.com/banner?type=Devtools&background=tiles&project=Locator" alt="Solid Devtools Locator">
  </p>
</a>

# @solid-devtools/locator

A runtime library for locating components on the page, and going to their source code in your IDE.

## Getting Started

### Installation

This module is built-in with [`solid-devtools`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/debugger#readme) package.

```bash
npm i solid-devtools
# or
yarn add solid-devtools
# or
pnpm i solid-devtools
```

### Babel Plugin

To be able to use the _"open source code in IDE"_ feature, you need to add vite plugin to your `.vite.config.js` file:

```ts
// vite.config.ts

import { defineConfig } from "vite"
import solidPlugin from "vite-plugin-solid"
import devtoolsPlugin from "solid-devtools/vite"

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [devtoolsPlugin(), solidPlugin()],
})
```

### Enable the Locator plugin

The [`solid-devtools`](https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/tree/main/packages/main#readme) package comes together with the locator installed. All you need to do is configure it by calling `useLocatorPlugin` with some options.

```ts
import { useLocatorPlugin } from "solid-devtools"

useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: "vscode",
})
```

### Locator Options

Currently Locator allows for specifying these props:

#### `targetIDE`

Choose in which IDE the component source code should be revealed.

Out-of-the-box options: `vscode`, `atom`, `webstorm` and `vscode-insiders`

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: "vscode",
})
```

**Target URL Function:**

To target custom URLs (e.g. Github files) the `targetIDE` option accepts an function returning a `string` or `false`.

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE: ({ filePath, line }) =>
    // will navigate to this link when clicking
    `https://github.com/thetarnav/solid-devtools/blob/main/playgrounds/sandbox/${filePath}#L${line}`,
})
```

Returning `false` will prevent calling `window.open` to navigate to URL, and let you handle the click yourself.

```ts
useLocatorPlugin({
  targetIDE({ projectPath, filePath, line, column, element }) {
    console.log({ projectPath, filePath, line, column, element })
    return false
  },
})
```

#### `key`

Holding which key should enable the locator overlay? It's `"altKey"` by default — <kbd>Alt</kbd> on Windows, and <kbd>Option</kbd> or <kbd>⌥</kbd> on macOS.

Key options: `"altKey"`, `"ctrlKey"`, `"metaKey"`, `"shiftKey"` or `string` to be compared with `e.key` property.

```tsx
useLocatorPlugin({
  key: "ctrlKey",
})
```

### Using the Locator on the page

To activate the Locator module — you have to hold down the <kbd>Alt</kbd>/<kbd>Option</kbd> key and move your mouse around the page to highlight components and their different HTML Elements.

Clicking the component should take you to the component source code, given that you specified the [`targetIDE`](#targetIDE) option.

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24491503/174093606-a0d80331-021f-4d43-b0bb-e9a4041e1a26.mp4

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md).
